README.md, before:

# LPTHW

In my professional coding I've done a bit of dabbling with Python over the years, changing various scripts as needed. However, it was never a mainstay of mine and more the occasional one-off script.

Decided to dig in a little more and use ["Learn Python the Hard Way" by Zed Shaw](https://learntocodetogether.com/learn-python-the-hard-way-free-ebook-download/) as a structure way to learn more details of the syntax. Additionally, good way to review the book as an intro for new developers. ~~May recommend to a friend.~~

Merited I'll likely go off script for this since that's how I learn best with these things.

Starting off with Python 2, [which finally hit End of Life](https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/) 2020, before going onto Python 3 (since a lot of projects may be stuck upgrading over the next couple years). Aiming to acquire solid foundation for the language.

## Pseudo-Review

It's aimed at squarely at those without programming experience, as the book starts off with. If you've taken a first year course this will rehash a lot of that, perhaps a little too much. That said, it tends towards being a little hostile/dogmatic in a way that I believe would misguide newcomers to programming.

Whether it be towards Python 3 (for which he released a book, not long after this), towards Dijkstra, and sometimes just programming, and I'm only half way through the book. He seems to have strong opinions held strongly (vs. strong opinions, loosely held with **modesty**).

Ignoring the role model aspect, the Python content is probably fine if only outdated, once you ignore the opinions.

## Running

1. `cd py2`
1. `python [exercise.py]`

Commit message:

Exercises 36 + 37; make my own "game" & syntax list in progress

README.md, after:

# LPTHW

In my professional coding I've done a bit of dabbling with Python over the years, changing various scripts as needed. However, it was never a mainstay of mine and more the occasional one-off script.

Decided to dig in a little more and use ["Learn Python the Hard Way" by Zed Shaw](https://learntocodetogether.com/learn-python-the-hard-way-free-ebook-download/) as a structure way to learn more details of the syntax. Additionally, good way to review the book as an intro for new developers. ~~May recommend to a friend.~~

Merited I'll likely go off script for this since that's how I learn best with these things.

Starting off with Python 2, [which finally hit End of Life](https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/) 2020, before going onto Python 3 (since a lot of projects may be stuck upgrading over the next couple years). Aiming to acquire solid foundation for the language.

## Pseudo-Review

It's aimed at squarely at those without programming experience, as the book starts off with. If you've taken a first year course this will rehash a lot of that, perhaps a little too much. That said, it tends towards being a little hostile/dogmatic in a way that I believe would misguide newcomers to programming.

Whether it be towards Python 3 (for which he released a book, not long after this), towards debuggers (`printf` debugging will only carry so far), towards Dijkstra, and sometimes just programming. He seems to have strong opinions held strongly (vs. strong opinions, loosely held with **modesty**). It's a mix of good practices with questionable ones, stated as absolutes.

Ignoring the role model aspect, the Python content is probably fine if only outdated, once you ignore the opinions.

## Running

1. `cd py2`
1. `python [exercise.py]`

## Interesting Exercises
 - ex36.py - Create your own game (did it in an hour)
 - ex37.md - Syntax list

## Style Guide

For my own reference: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
