# Chapter 37: Symbol Review

Review 94 symbols in Python 2.7.

## Keywords

* `and` - Logical `and`; Python doesn't support `&&`
* `del` - Deletes things.
    * An item in a list at an index, does not return it `del x[1]`
    * Delete a range `del x[2:4]`
    * The entire list `del [:]`
    * Delete variables `del x` (becomes not defined)
* `from` - Used to specify a method in module: `from math import sqrt()`
* `not` - Logical `not`; `!=` exists but `!!` won't work; `not not` will
* `while` - Self-explanatory.
    * Has optional `else` clause.
* `as` - Creates aliases for modules or `with` clause:
    * `import math as m`
    * `with open(file, 'a+') as nice_name`
* `elif` - `else if` equivalent but `else if` doesn't work.
* `global` - Allows you to read/write to global. Similar to PHP:
    *   ```
        x = 0
        def foobar():
            # x = x + 1 # UnboundLocalError: local variable
            global c
            x = x + 1
        ```
* `or` - Logicial `or`; `||` not supported
* `with` - Acts as both a try/catch(except) and an auto closing/releasing of resources:
    *   ```
        with open('/etc/passwd', 'r') as f:
        for line in f:
            print line
            ... more processing code ..
        ```
* `assert` - Fairly standard:
    *   ```
        assert x == 0, msg
        Traceback (most recent call last):
        File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
        AssertionError: fooba
        ```
* `else` - Self-explanatory. EXCEPT `while-else`:
    *   ```
        while x > 0:
            x -= 1
        else:
            print "Loop is done"
            print "Doesn't run if break; or exception happen."
        ```
* `if` -  Self-explanatory
* `pass` - null operation; it needs an operation to do something so use pass. Pops up in templates a bit. `class C: pass` `if False: pass`
* `yield` - Used in generators; no surprise here. JavaScript has generators that work the same.
    * Generators in python are as easy as defining a method.
* `break` - break loops. Only loops, no switches. Can't work with functions or classes within those loops. **skipping** the optional else
* `except` - try/catch --> try/except
* `import` - Used to import modules and methods.
* `print` - Prints. This changes Python 3.
* `class` - Self-explanatory
* `exec` - Like `eval()` or PHP `exec()`
* `in` - Used to check if value is in sequence. Must be iterable like list or string.
* `raise` - Throw Exception
* `continue` - Self-explanatory
* `finally` - Self-explanatory
* `is` - Confirms it is the same object (**not** type); `list1 is list2`
* `return` - Self-explanatory
* `def` - Declare functions
* `for` - Self-explanatory; one detail is that we only use them on iterables, no counting.
* `lambda` - Much like JavaScript.
    * Syntax is different: `lambda x, y: x + y`.
    * Other names:
        * Anonymous functions
        * Lambda functions
        * Lambda expressions
        * Lambda abstractions
        * Lambda form
        * Function literals
* `try` - Self-explanatory

## Data Types

> For data types, write out what makes up each one. For example, with strings write out how you
> create a string. For numbers, write out a few numbers.

* `True` - Self-explanatory
    * **HOWEVER** in Python 2.7 they are variables/objects, in Python 3 they are keywords. This matters because:
    ```
    python
    Python 2.7.12 (default, Apr 15 2020, 17:07:12)
    [GCC 5.4.0 20160609] on linux2
    Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>> True
    True
    >>> False
    False
    >>> True, False = False, True
    >>> True
    False
    >>> False
    True
    >>>
    ```
    Which is kind of hilarious.
* `False` - Self-explanatory.
    * In Python 2 the following are falsy:
        * `None`
        * `False`
        * zero of any numeric type: `0`, `0L` (long), `0.0` (float), `0j` (imaginary)
        * any empty sequence: `''`, `()`, `[]`
        * any empty mapping: `{}`
        * instances of user-defined classes if they define `__nonzero__()` or `__len()__` methods that return `0` or `False`.
* `None` - Acts as the null in Python.
* `strings` - sequence of characters. Has a variety of methods:
    * https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods
    * `capitalize()` - First char is UPPERCASED by reset is lowercased: `"miXED CaSE".capitalize() # 'Mixed case'`
    * `center(width[, fillchar])` - Returns the string centered using `fillchar` (default space), does not trim existing spaces: `"xyz".center(10) # '   xyz    '`
    * `count(sub[, start, end])` - Count matching occurrences of string in specified range.
    * `encode(...)` + `decode(...)` - See: https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/codecs.html#standard-encodings
    * `endswith(suffix[, start, end])` - `True`/`False` if string ends with. Can be a `tuple` (multiple suffixes) as well.
    * `expandtabs([tabsize])` - Converts spaces to tabs.
    * `find(sub[, start, end])` - Like `indexOf` Returns first occurrence of string match in range.
    * `format(*args, **kwargs)` - Basically like the formatting strings we do with `"%s" % (a)`. **Format is different and preferred**
        * `'{:+f}; {:+f}'.format(3.14, -3.14)  # '+3.140000; -3.140000'`
        * `'{named} {1} {2} {1} {2:.2f}'.format('a', 'b', 5, named='arg')`
        * https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/string.html#formatstrings
        * https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/string.html#formatexamples
        * **NOTE: In Python 3 this is the preferred format vs. the old `"%s" % (a)`**
    * `index(sub[, start, end])` - Like `find` but more aggressive. raises `ValueError` when it doesn't find it.
    * `isalnum()` - True if ALL chars in string are alpha-numeric (a space is not alpha-numeric). Locale dependent.
    * `isalpha()` - Same deal as above, but only alphabetic.
    * `isdigit()` - Self-explanatory.
    * `islower()` - True if all lower-case, ignoring non-alphabetic.
    * `isspace()` - True if non-empty and only spaces: `" \t ".isspace() # True`
    * `istitle()` - True if each "word" starts with capital letter followed by lowercase. Noting that is not necessarily **GRAMMATICAL** titles:
        *   ```
            # How an English title should be;
            >>> "The Book of Books".istitle()
            False
            >>> "The Book Of Books".istitle()
            True
            ```
        * See `title()`
    * `isupper()` - Same as `islower()`, but upper
    * `join(iterable)` - Joins the `iterable` with the glue that is the string: `",".join(['a', 'b', 'c']) # 'a,b,c'`
    * `ljust(width[, fillchar])` - Similar to `center()` but with left align justification. Adding padding to the right.
    * `lower()` - Pretty much `toLowerCase()`
    * `lstrip([chars])` - Performs a trim from the left side. Default is space but can be input string of multiple chars.
    * `partition(sep)` - Splits string into list/tuple of 3; 1st half, separator, 2nd half. No separator found results in full string + two empties.
    * `replace(old, new[, count])` - Replace matching string with new. Optional limit to first `count` occurrences.
    * `rfind(sub[, start, end])` - First **last** index in range; like `find()` but starts from right-to-left. -1 if not found.
    * `rindex(sub[, start, end])` - Like `index()`; raise error on failure, right-to-left find.
    * `rjust(width[, fillchar])` - Like `ljust()` but right aligned. Adding padding to the left.
    * `rpartition(sep)` - Much like `partition()` but starts from right-to-left. Return 3 items, 1st, sep, 2nd.
    * `rsplit([sep, maxsplit])` - Right-to-left split, default is space. `maxsplit` is number of splits to do before stopping, after which the original string is returned: `'a b c d e'.rsplit(' ', 2) # ['a b c', 'd', 'e']` Consecutive `sep` are treated as empty strings in result.
    * `rstrip([chars])` - Trim characters from the right, default space. Can input string with multiple chars.
    * `split([sep, maxsplit])` - Separate string, `maxsplit` times, left-to-right. Consecutive `sep` are treated as empty strings in result IF supplied:
        *   ```
            >>> 'a b c  d e'.split(' ', 3)
            ['a', 'b', 'c', ' d e']
            >>> 'a b c  d e'.split()
            ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
            >>> 'a b c  d e'.split(' ')
            ['a', 'b', 'c', '', 'd', 'e']
            >>>
            ```
    * `splitlines([keepends])` - Splits lines on universal newlines, however trailing new lines aren't "blank lines". `keepends` will split it but keep the end line chars intact.
        *   ```
            >>> "Everyone was \nfoo bar fighting\n".splitlines()
            ['Everyone was ', 'foo bar fighting']
            >>> "Everyone was \nfoo bar fighting\n".splitlines(True)
            ['Everyone was \n', 'foo bar fighting\n']
            ```
        * There is a unicode version that splits on unicode separators too.
    * `startswith(prefix[, start, end])` - Works like `endswith()`. `True`/`False` return.
    * `strip([chars])` - `trim()` from both sides. Can specify list of chars with string param.
    * `swapcase()` - Toggle the case of the characters:
        * `"Everyone was \nfoo bar fighting\n".swapcase() #   'eVERYONE WAS \nFOO BAR FIGHTING\n'`
    * `title()` - Creates a title to match the rules of `istitle()`. Is language independent, simply makes the first character at a word boundary be capital, following lowercase. Warning results may be amusing.
        * `"you're not too sure, ARE YOU?".title() # "You'Re Not Too Sure, Are You?"`
        * For English:  https://capitalizemytitle.com/
        > In general, the following capitalization rules apply across the four styles in title case:
        > * Capitalize the first word in the title
        > * Capitalize the last word in the title
        > * Capitalize the important words in the title
        >
        > **Important words** in that last bullet generally refer to:
        > * Adjectives (tiny, large, etc.)
        > * Adverbs (quietly, smoothly, etc.)
        > * Nouns (tablet, kitchen, book)
        > * Pronouns (they, she, he)
        > * Subordinating conjunctions (when fewer than 5 letters)
        > * Verbs (write, type, create)
    * `translate(table[, deletechars])` - Returns copy of string with multiple replacements/deletions. `maketrans()` in the string module may be of use here.
    * `upper()` - Does `toUpperCase()`
    * `zfill(width)` - Zero fill. Fills the number with 0s as you may want for consistent numbering. However, doesn't care if it's really a number in there.
    * `unicode.isnumeric()` - Includes things like unicode fractions.
    * `unicode.isdecimal()` - Includes numbery things like Unicode Arabic digit zero.
* `numbers` - Four distinct types. Operand with "narrower" type is widened to the other; plain int narrower than long narrower than float narrower than complex.
    * plain `integer()`: `0`
    * `float()`: `0.0`
    * `long()`: `0L`, `0l`
    * `complex()`: `0J`, `0j`
    * https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/stdtypes.html#numeric-types-int-float-long-complex
* `floats` - See above
* `lists` - A sequence type similar to arrays. Methods:
    * `list.append(x)` - Self-explanatory
    * `list.extend(L)` - Appends the parameter list to the extended list.
    * `list.insert(i, x)` - Self-explanatory. Index larger than list is the end, negative index will be start.
    * `list.remove(i)` - Self-explanatory. Error for no such item.
    * `list.index(x)` - Returns the index of first item to match x. **Error for no item.**
    * `list.count(x)` - Returns the number of times item if found in list. **Safe for no match.**
    * `list.sort(cmp=None, key=None, reverse=False)`
        * `cmp` - Comparison function to use: `cmp=lambda x,y: cmp(x.lower(), y.lower()`
        * `key` - The function to apply to values as a sorting key: `key=str.lower`
        * `reverse` - Sort reverse.
    * `reverse()` - Reverse the contents (not sorted, per se)
    * Consider also list comprehensions:
        * `squares = [x ** 2 for x in range(10)]` -> `[0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81]`
        * `[(x, y) for x in [1, 2, 3] for y in [3, 1, 4] if x != y]` -> `[(1, 3), (1, 4), (2, 3), (2, 1), (2, 4), (3, 1), (3, 4)]`

## String Escape Sequences

> For string escape sequences, use them in strings to make sure they do what you think they do.

These seem to be the same as your typical escape values.
* `\\` - Self-explanatory.
* `\'` - Self-explanatory.
* `\"` - Self-explanatory.
* `\a` - ASCII Bell
    * Requires the system to have terminal bell enabled; some Linux distros will have it disabled.
* `\b` - ASCII Backspace
* `\f` - ASCII Formfeed
    *   ```
        print "abcde\fhijkl"
        abcde
             hijkl
        ```
* `\n` - Self-explanatory.
* `\r` - Mainly used on Windows with `\n`; returns to the beginning of the line.
* `\t` - Self-explanatory.
* `\v` - Much the same functionality as formfeed. The primary difference is with printers where it'll keep the tabstop for new pages, formfeed will return to a new line.
* `\ooo` - Characters with octal values.: `print("\110\145\154\154\157\40\127\157\162\154\144\41")`
* `xhh` - Character with hex values: `print("\x48\x65\x6c\x6c\x6f\x20\x57\x6f\x72\x6c\x64\x21")`

## String Formats

> Same thing for string formats: use them in some strings to know what they do.

This is **OLD** should avoid it from now on.

Python 3, `string.format()` is preferred to these. See:
* https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/string.html#formatstrings
* https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/string.html#formatexamples

The letters still carry forward into new format. Mostly follows the same as printf strings.

* `%d` - decimal
* `%i` - integer
* `%o` - octal
* `%u` - unsigned
* `%x` - hex lower
* `%X` - hex upper
* `%e` - exponential lower
* `%E` - exponential upper
* `%f` - float
* `%F` - float
* `%g` - float/exponential lower
* `%G` - float/exponential upper
* `%c` - character
* `%r` - raw
* `%s` - string
* `%%` - percent

## Operators

> Some of these may be unfamiliar to you, but look them up anyway. Find out what they do, and if
> you still can’t figure it out, save it for later.

See also: https://docs.python.org/2/library/operator.html

* `+` -  Addition + concats
* `-` -  Self-explanatory
* `*` -  Self-explanatory
* `**` - Exponent
* `/` -  Self-explanatory
* `//` - Floor divide
* `%` - Self-explanatory
* `<` - Self-explanatory
* `>` - Self-explanatory
* `<=` - Self-explanatory
* `>=` - Self-explanatory
* `==` - Value equal but not object equal.
* `!=` - Self-explanatory
* `<>` - Deprecated. Old not equal.
* `( )` - Self-explanatory
* `[ ]` - Self-explanatory
* `{ }` - Self-explanatory
* `@` - Decorators: https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonDecorators
* `,` - Self-explanatory
* `:` - Range operator used in slicing.
* `.` - Self-explanatory
* `=` - Self-explanatory
* `;` - Self-explanatory
* `+=` - Self-explanatory
* `-=` - Self-explanatory
* `*=` - Self-explanatory
* `/=` - Self-explanatory
* `//=` - Floor divide
* `%=` - Self-explanatory
* `**=` - Exponent
